Honey never spoils.
Bananas are berries, but strawberries are not.
Octopuses have three hearts.
A day on Venus is longer than a year on Venus.
Sharks existed before trees.
Wombat poop is cube-shaped.
The Eiffel Tower can grow taller in summer.
There are more stars in the universe than grains of sand on Earth.
Some turtles can breathe through their butts.
A group of flamingos is called a flamboyance.
The human body has enough iron to make a small nail.
Koalas have fingerprints similar to humans.
Hot water can freeze faster than cold water in some conditions.
A bolt of lightning is hotter than the surface of the sun.
Cows have best friends.
Sloths can hold their breath longer than dolphins.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
Sea otters hold hands while sleeping.
The shortest war in history lasted 38 to 45 minutes.
A cloud can weigh more than a million pounds.
Butterflies taste with their feet.
The moon has moonquakes.
Jellyfish have existed longer than dinosaurs.
A day on Mercury is longer than its year.
The inventor of the Frisbee was turned into a Frisbee after he died.
Pineapples take about two years to grow.
A shrimp’s heart is in its head.
Some frogs can freeze without dying.
The unicorn is the national animal of Scotland.
There are more possible chess games than atoms in the observable universe.
Cats can rotate their ears 180 degrees.
Bamboo is one of the fastest-growing plants on Earth.
A single strand of spaghetti is called a spaghetto.
The fingerprints of a koala are almost indistinguishable from humans.
Blue whales are the largest animals ever known to exist.
The hottest chili peppers can cause temporary numbness.
The first oranges were green.
A snail can sleep for up to three years.
The heart of a blue whale is so large that a human could swim through its arteries.
Some fish can recognize themselves in a mirror.
The dot over the letters i and j is called a tittle.
A crocodile cannot stick its tongue out.
Scotland’s national animal is a mythical creature.
Elephants can smell water from miles away.
The brain uses about 20 percent of the body's energy.
A group of crows is called a murder.
Venus is the hottest planet in the solar system.
Some cats are allergic to humans.
Polar bears have black skin under their fur.
A day on Jupiter lasts only about 10 hours.
The longest hiccuping spree lasted 68 years.
There are trees older than the pyramids.
A newborn kangaroo is about the size of a jellybean.
The inventor of the microwave discovered it by accident.
A cockroach can live for weeks without its head.
The fear of long words is called hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia.
The tongue is the strongest muscle relative to its size.
The world's largest desert is Antarctica.
Owls cannot move their eyes.
A group of owls is called a parliament.
The first computer mouse was made of wood.
Avocados are berries.
A bolt of lightning can strike the same place multiple times.
Dolphins have names for each other.
The smell of freshly cut grass is a plant distress signal.
Mosquitoes are attracted to certain blood types more than others.
The circulatory system is over 60,000 miles long.
A single teaspoon of neutron star material would weigh billions of tons.
The largest snowflake on record was 15 inches wide.
Hummingbirds are the only birds that can fly backward.
The letter Q does not appear in any U.S. state name.
Mantis shrimp can punch with the speed of a bullet.
The first alarm clock could only ring at 4 a.m.
There is enough gold in Earth’s core to coat the planet.
A group of porcupines is called a prickle.
Rabbits cannot vomit.
The first known vending machine dispensed holy water.
Pigs cannot look straight up into the sky.
A baby octopus is about the size of a flea.
The inventor of Pringles is buried in a Pringles can.
A giraffe has the same number of neck vertebrae as a human.
The first photo ever taken required hours of exposure.
The longest English word without a vowel is rhythm.
The total weight of ants on Earth may rival that of humans.
A tiger’s skin is striped, not just its fur.
The longest-living insect is the termite queen.
Human noses can distinguish more than a trillion smells.
A leap year happens every four years, with some exceptions.
A day on Saturn is shorter than a day on Earth.
Armadillo shells are bullet-resistant in some cases.
The first product with a barcode was chewing gum.
The average person walks the equivalent of around five times around Earth in a lifetime.
A group of jellyfish is called a smack.
The color orange was named after the fruit.
An apple, potato, and onion taste the same if you eat them with your nose plugged.
A cat has fewer toes on its back paws than on its front paws.
Sea cucumbers can eject their internal organs to defend themselves.
A hummingbird’s heart can beat over 1,000 times per minute.
Tigers have striped skin.
Rain has a smell called petrichor.
The first footprints on the moon will remain there for millions of years.
A peanut is not a nut.
Your bones are stronger than steel by weight.
The shortest commercial flight in the world lasts under two minutes.
Some lizards can squirt blood from their eyes.
A housefly hums in the key of F.
The Hawaiian alphabet has only 13 letters.
There are no muscles in your fingers.
The inventor of the Popsicle was 11 years old.
The fingerprints of a fetus form in the womb.
Every planet in the solar system could fit between Earth and the moon.
A teaspoon of honey represents the life work of many bees.
The average cumulus cloud weighs hundreds of tons.
Shakespeare invented many common English words.
A starfish can regenerate lost arms.
The first person convicted of speeding was going 8 mph.
The moon is slowly drifting away from Earth.
The national animal of Scotland is the unicorn.
Cranberries can bounce when ripe.
The world’s oldest known pet cat was buried over 9,000 years ago.
A lobster’s teeth are in its stomach.
Glass can take a million years to decompose.
There is a basketball court above the U.S. Supreme Court.
The tiny pocket in jeans was originally made for pocket watches.
A sneeze can travel faster than 100 mph.
The fingerprints of koalas can confuse crime scene investigators.
Some metals are so reactive they explode in water.
The human stomach gets a new lining every few days.
Your taste buds live for about two weeks.
A violin contains over 70 pieces of wood.
The world’s oldest piece of chewing gum is over 9,000 years old.
The longest wedding veil was longer than 60 football fields.
There are more trees on Earth than stars in the Milky Way.
A group of pugs is called a grumble.
The word robot comes from a Czech word meaning forced labor.
The inventor of the can opener came decades after the can.
Caterpillars have more muscles than humans.
A lightning strike can create glass in sand.
The first webcam watched a coffee pot.
The dot above a lowercase i is called a tittle.
The shortest complete sentence in English is I am.
A woodpecker’s tongue can wrap around its skull.
The inventor of the Super Soaker originally worked as a NASA engineer.
A shrimp’s heart is located in its head.
Ketchup was once sold as medicine.
The world’s quietest room is so silent that people can hear their own organs.
A group of pandas is called an embarrassment.
Some worms can jump.
Mangoes are related to poison ivy.
The oldest known living tree is more than 4,000 years old.
Dragonflies have six legs but cannot walk well.
The longest place name on Earth has 85 letters.
The first email was sent in 1971.
A group of frogs is called an army.
The tongue print of every person is unique.
Venus spins in the opposite direction of most planets.
The first roller coaster in America was built to distract people from sin.
The average person blinks around 20 times a minute.
A group of ravens is called an unkindness.
A chef’s hat traditionally has 100 folds.
A day on Neptune lasts about 16 hours.
The inventor of Lego’s name means play well in Danish.
The Sahara Desert was once green.
Whales have belly buttons.
A group of foxes is called a skulk.
No number before 1,000 contains the letter A.
The shortest English word with all five vowels is eunoia.
A cloud’s weight comes from water droplets and ice crystals.
A jiffy is an actual unit of time.
The human body contains enough carbon to make thousands of pencils.
The first animation to use CGI was in the 1970s.
The inventor of the shopping cart was inspired by a folding chair.
A duck’s quack does echo.
The Twitter bird once had a name: Larry.
Some sea slugs can steal chloroplasts from plants.
The world’s largest volcano is on Mars.
A group of ferrets is called a business.
Earth is not a perfect sphere.
A flea can jump many times its body length.
The oldest known recipe is for beer.
The longest mountain range is underwater.
A narwhal’s tusk is actually a tooth.
Your ears and nose keep growing as you age.
The original London Bridge is in Arizona.
The inventor of the Rubik’s Cube took a month to solve it.
The largest living structure on Earth is the Great Barrier Reef.
The first text message said Merry Christmas.
A group of toads is called a knot.
Octopuses have blue blood.
Bats are the only mammals capable of true sustained flight.
There are more fake flamingos in the world than real ones.
The first camera photograph of a person was accidental.
Peanuts are legumes.
A sneeze briefly stops your heart’s rhythm.
Dolphins sleep with one eye open.
An iguana can stay underwater for over 20 minutes.
The inventor of the slinky discovered it by accident.
The moon has no atmosphere to carry sound.
A baby puffin is called a puffling.
The word muscle comes from Latin for little mouse.
The average person has billions of bacteria in their mouth.
A beehive can contain tens of thousands of bees.
A group of unicorns is called a blessing.
Jupiter has the shortest day of all the planets.
Some spiders can glide through the air.
A cat can jump up to six times its body length.
The first telephone book had only 50 names.
A horse cannot breathe through its mouth.
The strongest bone in the human body is the femur.
Some penguins propose with pebbles.
A group of snakes is called a pit.
The Pacific Ocean is larger than all land on Earth combined.
Sea horses mate for life in some species.
The oldest toy in the world is probably a stick.
A banana is naturally slightly radioactive.
The first website is still online.
A jellyfish has no brain, heart, or bones.
Sharks can detect electric fields.
The average person sheds millions of skin cells every day.
A crocodile’s ancestors survived the dinosaur extinction.
The first domain name ever registered was symbolics.com.
Penguins have knees.
The inventor of Velcro was inspired by burrs on his dog.
The Earth’s rotation is gradually slowing.
A group of geese on the ground is called a gaggle.
Human teeth are as unique as fingerprints.
Some trees can communicate through underground fungal networks.
There are pink lakes in the world.
The smallest bird egg belongs to the bee hummingbird.
The largest organ in the human body is the skin.
The first headphones were used by telephone operators.
The average human brain contains about 86 billion neurons.
A jellyfish can clone itself in some stages of life.
A teaspoon of soil can hold billions of microorganisms.
The tallest mammal is the giraffe.
A group of whales is called a pod.
A human sneeze can spray thousands of droplets.
The shortest muscle in the body is in the ear.
The heart creates enough pressure to squirt blood several feet.
Some turtles glow under ultraviolet light.
The first modern Olympic Games were held in 1896.
Sunsets on Mars appear blue.
The first person to reach the South Pole used dogsleds.
The world’s biggest snow maze was built in Canada.
Some birds can sleep while flying.
The average person spends years of life dreaming.
A single lightning bolt can power a home briefly.
The oldest known musical instrument is a flute.
Cats sleep for much of their lives.
A group of bunnies is called a fluffle.
The moon is lemon-shaped.
The first successful parachute jump from a plane happened in 1912.
A polar bear can smell a seal from far away.
Butterflies can see ultraviolet light.
The oldest known “your mom” joke is thousands of years old.
The human eye can detect millions of colors.
The tallest wave ever surfed was over 80 feet.
The deepest part of the ocean is deeper than Mount Everest is tall.
Some bamboo species can grow nearly a meter in a day.
The first known map is thousands of years old.
A squid has three hearts.
Alaska is the westernmost and easternmost U.S. state.
The average person has about 100,000 hairs on their head.
A bolt of lightning contains enough energy to toast thousands of slices of bread.
Sharks lose thousands of teeth in a lifetime.
The first 3D movie was shown in the 1920s.
Bananas glow blue under black light.
The tongue has thousands of taste buds.
A camel’s hump stores fat, not water.
A newborn giant panda weighs less than a cup of tea.
Some fish can climb waterfalls.
The first ever recorded joke is from ancient Sumer.
The Earth’s core is about as hot as the sun’s surface.
The smell of rain comes from bacteria and plant oils.
Cats cannot taste sweetness.
The speed of a sneeze can exceed a fastball.
The first artificial sweetener was discovered by accident.
There are more molecules in a glass of water than glasses of water in the oceans.
A shark’s skeleton is made of cartilage.
The world’s tallest sandcastle was over 20 meters high.
Some moths do not have mouths.
The first woman in space was Valentina Tereshkova.
An owl can rotate its head up to 270 degrees.
The average raindrop falls at about 14 mph.
The first known use of emojis dates back before smartphones.
Snakes smell with their tongues.
The oldest known board game is over 5,000 years old.
A zebra’s stripes are unique.
A bolt of lightning can reach 30,000 kelvin.
The inventor of the escalator called it a revolving staircase.
Sea stars are not actually fish.
The human jaw is one of the strongest joints in the body.
A day on Uranus lasts about 17 hours.
Some deserts get cold enough for snow.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
The first successful cloning of a mammal produced Dolly the sheep.
The moon has a thin exosphere instead of a true atmosphere.
A teaspoon of a neutron star would be unimaginably heavy.
The average cloud droplet is tiny but clouds weigh a lot.
The first postage stamp featured Queen Victoria.
The strongest muscle based on force is the jaw muscle.
The total length of human blood vessels is enormous.
Some butterflies migrate thousands of miles.
A piano has 88 keys.
The first color film process was developed in the 1800s.
A blue whale can eat tons of krill per day.
The average person laughs many times a day.
The Earth is hit by millions of meteoroids daily.
Some parrots can solve puzzles.
The first balloon flight carrying people happened in 1783.
The world’s largest canyon is underwater.
A sea turtle can navigate using Earth’s magnetic field.
The average brain weighs about 1.4 kilograms.
A penny dropped from a skyscraper would not kill someone.
The first talking movie was The Jazz Singer.
Mosquitoes kill more humans than any other animal.
The average person produces enough saliva in a lifetime to fill pools.
Some flowers can generate heat.
The first person to circumnavigate the globe did not survive the journey.
A cat’s purr may help bones heal.
The world’s oldest university still operating is in Morocco.
The average lightning flash is several miles long.
Some frogs fly by gliding.
The smallest bone in the body is the stapes.
The first digital camera was invented in 1975.
The world’s largest pizza was over 13,000 square feet.
A horse’s teeth take up more space in its head than its brain.
The average person has one nostril more active at a time.
Some animals can see polarized light.
The first public zoo opened in Paris.
A single volcano can cool global temperatures.
The average person dreams several times each night.
Some insects can survive being frozen.
The first programmable computer was enormous.
The tallest building in the world can sway in the wind.
A star’s color reveals its temperature.
The average snowflake falls at about 3 mph.
The first successful heart transplant happened in 1967.
The Arctic and Antarctic are both technically deserts.
Some snakes can give birth without mating.
The average person spends months waiting at red lights over a lifetime.
The first commercial microwave oven was nearly 6 feet tall.
There are waterfalls underwater in some oceans.
The average goldfish can recognize faces.
A wood frog can freeze and thaw back to life.
The first postage stamps were once cut with scissors.
The average person has over 600 muscles.
Some sharks glow in the dark.
The first human-made object in space was Sputnik 1.
The world’s largest flower smells like rotting meat.
A rabbit’s teeth never stop growing.
The first successful organ transplant was a kidney transplant.
The average person loses around 50 to 100 hairs a day.
Some ants farm fungi.
The first synthetic dye changed the fashion industry.
The average person can produce enough heat to power a light bulb.
The deepest cave explored goes over 2 kilometers down.
A bee can recognize human faces.
The first traffic light was manually operated.
The average person spends about a third of life asleep.
Some lizards can run on water.
The first recorded meteor shower observation is ancient.
A turtle’s shell is part of its skeleton.
The average person takes about 20,000 breaths a day.
Some animals can survive in space briefly.
The first video game tournament took place in the 1970s.
A rose is edible in many forms.
The average person has a dominant eye.
Some fish can survive out of water for days.
The first electric toaster could toast only one side at a time.
A day on Pluto is over six Earth days.
The average person walks about 7,500 steps a day in many studies.
Some clouds produce lightning without rain reaching the ground.
The first successful powered flight lasted 12 seconds.
A cat’s nose print is unique.
The average person’s feet contain a quarter of the bones in the body.
Some spiders keep tiny frogs as bodyguards.
The first known name in history may be Kushim.
A blue whale’s tongue can weigh as much as an elephant.
The average adult has 32 teeth.
Some plants eat insects.
The first barcode scan was on chewing gum.
A baby rabbit is called a kit.
The average person’s skin renews itself roughly every month.
Some birds can imitate chainsaws.
The first successful penicillin use saved countless lives.
A giraffe’s tongue can be dark blue or purple.
The average person speaks thousands of words per day.
Some mushrooms glow in the dark.
The first television remote was attached by a wire.
A kangaroo cannot walk backward easily.
The average person’s heart beats over 100,000 times a day.
Some seals can dive deeper than 1,500 meters.
The first mechanical clock towers appeared in medieval Europe.
A cow can walk upstairs but not downstairs easily.
The average person has two to five million sweat glands.
Some birds can recognize themselves in mirrors.
The first successful vaccine was for smallpox.
A dolphin can recognize itself in a mirror.
The average person has about 206 bones as an adult.
Some rocks can float.
The first newspaper crossword appeared in 1913.
An elephant cannot jump.
The average human body contains trillions of cells.
Some spiders can live underwater temporarily.
The first successful jet airliner entered service in the 1950s.
A camel can close its nostrils against sand.
The average person has a unique gait.
Some sharks can live for centuries.
The first printed book with movable type transformed literacy.
A goat has rectangular pupils.
The average person’s left lung is slightly smaller than the right.
Some birds use tools.
The first submarine used in combat was hand-powered.
A sheep can recognize human faces for years.
The average person’s body is about 60 percent water.
Some plants can hear vibrations.
The first ever puzzle piece jigsaw was made from a map.
A horse can sleep standing up.
The average person has enough DNA to stretch huge distances.
Some worms have five hearts.
The first modern bicycle had no pedals.
A giraffe can clean its ears with its tongue.
The average person’s fingernails grow faster than toenails.
Some beetles can spray boiling chemicals.
The first public movie screening was in 1895.
A shark can smell a drop of blood from far away.
The average person has around 10,000 taste buds.
Some bats pollinate flowers.
The first successful blood transfusions changed medicine.
A cheetah’s tail helps it steer.
The average person’s hair grows about half an inch per month.
Some insects can carry many times their body weight.
The first escalator was considered a novelty ride.
A group of lions is called a pride.
The average person’s eye muscles move constantly.
Some coral colonies are thousands of years old.
The first successful moon landing was in 1969.
A panda spends much of its day eating bamboo.
The average person loses height slightly by the end of the day.
Some plants can move quickly.
The first successful photograph of the moon was taken in the 1800s.
A flamingo’s color comes from its diet.
The average person has enough fat for multiple bars of soap.
Some spiders can mimic ants.
The first sewing machines changed clothing production.
A crab’s blood can appear blue.
The average person has one foot slightly bigger than the other.
Some birds can fly for months.
The first practical electric light bulb changed cities.
A porcupine has around 30,000 quills.
The average tongue has many papillae.
Some frogs carry eggs on their backs.
The first commercial compact disc was released in the 1980s.
A snail has thousands of tiny teeth.
The average nose can remember many scents.
Some fish change sex during life.
The first known libraries existed thousands of years ago.
A tiger can leap over 20 feet.
The average person’s brain is mostly water.
Some plants mimic insects.
The first calculators were mechanical.
A blue whale calf gains enormous weight daily.
The average blink lasts about a tenth of a second.
Some birds can count.
The first successful steam locomotive opened rail travel.
A frog absorbs water through its skin.
The average person’s bones stop growing after adolescence.
Some octopuses collect coconut shells as tools.
The first mass-produced car changed transportation.
A hummingbird can visit thousands of flowers in a day.
The average person’s pupils change size constantly.
Some fish can make sounds.
The first camera phone combined two major inventions.
A moose can run faster than many horses over short distances.
The average human skeleton renews itself over years.
Some flowers bloom only at night.
The first practical helicopter appeared in the 20th century.
A penguin’s feathers are densely packed.
The average person can hear a huge range of frequencies in youth.
Some insects fake death.
The first paper money appeared in China.
A beaver’s teeth never stop growing.
The average human has a slightly asymmetrical face.
Some birds dance to attract mates.
The first fountain pens became widely popular in the 1800s.
A chameleon changes color for communication and temperature control.
The average person drinks thousands of liters of water per year.
Some fish breathe air.
The first synthetic plastic was Bakelite.
A starfish can have more than five arms.
The average person’s liver can regenerate.
Some ants build living bridges.
The first personal computers were expensive and limited.
A walrus can have hundreds of whiskers.
The average person’s body temperature changes through the day.
Some birds hide food and remember the spots.
The first movie with synchronized sound changed cinema.
A kangaroo rat can survive without drinking free water.
The average person makes many small decisions every day.
Some sharks have to keep moving to breathe.
The first bicycles were nicknamed hobby horses.
A whale shark is the largest fish alive.
The average person has a stronger leg than arm by force output.
Some lizards detach their tails to escape predators.
The first satellite images changed weather forecasting.
A fox uses Earth’s magnetic field to hunt.
The average person yawns several times a day.
Some birds can mimic human speech very clearly.
The first synthetic rubber became crucial in war and industry.
A polar bear’s fur is actually transparent.
The average person’s spine shrinks slightly during the day.
Some animals glow through bioluminescence.
The first email spam message was sent decades ago.
A crocodile can replace teeth many times.
The average person’s tongue print may be unique.
Some whales sing songs that change over time.
The first touchscreen was invented long before smartphones.
A mosquito has 47 teeth-like structures in its proboscis.
The average person has around 23 pairs of chromosomes.
Some fish use electricity to navigate.
The first successful radar systems changed warfare and travel.
A cat’s whiskers help it judge spaces.
The average person’s hearing declines with age.
Some fungi can infect insects and control behavior.
The first roller skates had metal wheels.
A sea lion can rotate its rear flippers forward.
The average person processes visual information very quickly.
Some birds sleep with half their brain at a time.
The first successful vaccine campaign eradicated smallpox eventually.
A zebra can run in zigzags to escape predators.
The average person’s immune system remembers past infections.
Some insects communicate through vibration.
The first artificial satellite orbited Earth in 1957.
A pelican’s pouch can hold more than its stomach.
The average person’s skin weighs several kilograms.
Some sharks can reproduce asexually.
The first practical typewriter changed office work.
A gecko can stick to walls using tiny hair-like structures.
The average person’s gut contains trillions of microbes.
Some birds use traffic to crack nuts.
The first robots in factories transformed manufacturing.
A platypus lays eggs.
The average person’s blood is about 7 to 8 percent of body weight.
Some frogs carry tadpoles on their backs.
The first color photographs required special processes.
A narwhal can dive deep under Arctic ice.
The average person’s face has dozens of muscles.
Some trees release chemicals to warn nearby plants.
The first air-conditioned building changed comfort standards.
A horse’s ears can move independently.
The average person’s kidneys filter huge amounts of blood daily.
Some beetles glow to attract mates.
The first computer bug was an actual moth.
A giraffe can run around 35 mph.
The average person’s body makes millions of red blood cells each second.
Some birds steal fur to line nests.
The first modern traffic signals used gas lamps.
A swordfish can heat its eyes and brain.
The average person’s memory is reconstructive, not like a recording.
Some plants trap animals with slippery surfaces.
The first known calendars tracked moon cycles.
A hummingbird’s wings can beat dozens of times per second.
The average person’s fingerprints form before birth.
Some spiders can hear airborne sounds.
The first safety razor made shaving easier at home.
A bumblebee can fly despite old myths claiming otherwise.
The average person has more than one kind of smile.
Some fish can freeze and survive in icy water.
The first practical zipper was called a clasp locker.
A pufferfish can inflate rapidly.
The average person’s reaction time is around a quarter of a second.
Some birds can navigate by stars.
The first mobile phones were much larger than today’s.
A snail can have around 14,000 teeth.
The average person’s skull has 22 bones.
Some insects see ultraviolet patterns on flowers.
The first successful vaccine used cowpox to protect against smallpox.
A duck has waterproof feathers due to oils.
The average person’s feet sweat a lot each day.
Some ants explode to defend their colony.
The first credit cards were made of cardboard.
A seahorse is a poor swimmer but an excellent camouflager.
The average person has one nostril that dominates airflow at a time.
Some fish build elaborate nests.
The first known eyeglasses appeared in medieval Europe.
A sloth moves slowly to avoid detection.
The average person’s shoulder is highly mobile.
Some worms can regrow missing parts.
The first radio broadcast reached homes in the early 20th century.
A starling can mimic mechanical noises.
The average person’s cheeks have powerful muscles for chewing.
Some lizards can change color dramatically.
The first modern refrigerator changed food storage.
A penguin can drink saltwater thanks to special glands.
The average person’s balance relies on the inner ear.
Some fish glow with biofluorescence.
The first television broadcasts were black and white.
A camel can tolerate major water loss.
The average person’s body replaces many atoms over time.
Some bats use leaves as tents.
The first successful DNA fingerprinting changed forensics.
A lobster can live a very long time.
The average person’s heartbeat can sync with music tempo.
Some birds cache thousands of seeds.
The first known paper was made in China.
A bee’s wings beat around 200 times per second.
The average person’s elbows have less rotational freedom than shoulders.
Some fish use tools to crack shells.
The first transatlantic cable changed global communication.
A koala sleeps much of the day.
The average person’s eyes stay roughly the same size after childhood.
Some insects farm aphids.
The first successful polio vaccines saved millions of lives.
A peacock is the male; the female is a peahen.
The average person’s body has more bacterial cells than one might expect by mass relationships.
Some birds can smell surprisingly well.
The first pocket calculators were expensive.
A raccoon’s front paws are highly sensitive.
The average person’s pupils dilate in low light.
Some spiders mimic bird droppings.
The first satellites improved GPS decades later.
A kangaroo’s kick can be powerful.
The average person’s hand has 27 bones.
Some fish can survive in mud.
The first successful airplane flights led rapidly to aviation advances.
A crow can remember human faces.
The average person’s saliva helps protect teeth.
Some plants fold leaves when touched.
The first vacuum cleaners were horse-drawn in some cases.
A dragonfly can see in nearly all directions.
The average person’s tendons are stronger than muscles.
Some whales migrate huge distances yearly.
The first known clocks used water or sundials.
A goat can climb steep trees.
The average person’s heart size is about the size of a fist.
Some insects breathe through spiracles, not lungs.
The first successful contact lenses were hard lenses.
A rabbit can turn its ears independently.
The average person’s blood type is inherited genetically.
Some snakes glide from tree to tree.
The first successful MRI transformed imaging.
A vulture can soar for hours with little flapping.
The average person’s nails grow faster in summer.
Some birds use ants as insect repellent.
The first practical chainsaw was for medical use.
A jellyfish sting can still work after the animal dies.
The average person’s face is not perfectly symmetrical.
Some fungi can survive radiation better than humans.
The first commercial jet service shortened global travel times.
A dolphin can identify companions by signature whistles.
The average person’s knees endure major force when walking.
Some fish can sense electric fields.
The first electric guitar changed music history.
A snail’s slime helps it move and protect itself.
The average person’s vision has a blind spot in each eye.
Some birds can store food in throat pouches.
The first synthetic fibers changed clothing.
A camel’s eyelashes protect against sand.
The average person’s brain continues developing into young adulthood.
Some frogs can hatch early when threatened.
The first practical dishwasher was invented by Josephine Cochrane.
A squirrel can plant thousands of trees by forgetting nuts.
The average person’s ribs move with each breath.
Some fish use camouflage to ambush prey.
The first traffic signs were made for cyclists.
A horse’s hoof is similar to a giant toenail.
The average person’s body contains trace amounts of gold.
Some birds can detect magnetic fields.
The first television sets had tiny screens.
A shrimp can snap loudly enough to stun prey.
The average person’s jaw exerts strong bite force.
Some insects communicate with light flashes.
The first practical sewing machine patent sparked industrial change.
A parrot can live for decades.
The average person’s body makes vitamin D from sunlight.
Some fish can walk on fins.
The first practical camera made portraits more accessible.
A butterfly begins life as an egg.
The average person’s small intestine is several meters long.
Some spiders can survive long periods without food.
The first electric cars are older than many expect.
A toucan’s bill helps regulate body temperature.
The average person’s eyes make tiny movements even when fixated.
Some frogs carry eggs in pouches.
The first known perfumes were made in ancient civilizations.
A falcon can dive at incredible speeds.
The average person’s body can adapt to altitude over time.
Some fish school to confuse predators.
The first commercially successful game console changed home entertainment.
A horsefly’s eyes are huge relative to its head.
The average person’s neck has seven vertebrae.
Some birds can learn complex songs.
The first paper clips were not the shape most people know today.
A cuttlefish can change both color and texture.
The average person’s skin has multiple layers.
Some insects can hear ultrasound.
The first electronic computers filled rooms.
A flamingo can stand on one leg for long periods.
The average person’s brain is highly energy-demanding.
Some plants spread seeds explosively.
The first successful telegraph messages changed communication speed.
A llama can hum.
The average person’s posture affects breathing.
Some fish can recognize individuals.
The first practical stapler was a luxury item.
A raven can solve multi-step problems.
The average person’s fat distribution varies by genetics and hormones.
Some birds can sleep while gliding.
The first known umbrellas were for shade, not rain.
A grasshopper hears through organs on its abdomen.
The average person’s lungs have a huge surface area.
Some insects use camouflage that looks like leaves.
The first practical phonograph recorded sound mechanically.
A sea cucumber can liquefy parts of its body.
The average person’s tears have different compositions depending on cause.
Some fish produce antifreeze proteins.
The first known clocks with gears appeared long ago.
A pigeon can recognize itself in a mirror in some studies.
The average person’s body loses water through breathing.
Some birds line nests with aromatic plants.
The first successful vaccines reshaped public health.
A mole can dig rapidly.
The average person’s tongue has regions with varying sensitivity, not strict taste zones.
Some insects migrate across continents.
The first safety elevator made skyscrapers practical.
A crocodile can hold its breath for a long time.
The average person’s pancreas helps regulate blood sugar.
Some fish can live in very low oxygen.
The first practical wristwatches became popular in war.
A wood frog’s body chemistry helps it survive freezing.
The average person’s skin hosts a diverse microbiome.
Some birds use vocal dialects.
The first successful antibiotics revolutionized medicine.
A camel’s red blood cells are oval-shaped.
The average person’s body responds to stress with hormones.
Some spiders can balloon through the air on silk.
The first practical barcode changed retail systems.
A hummingbird can enter torpor to save energy.
The average person’s reflexes can bypass conscious thought.
Some insects can parthenogenetically reproduce.
The first practical elevators had safety brakes.
A penguin uses dense feathers and fat for insulation.
The average person’s ankle contains multiple joints working together.
Some fish can detect water vibrations with lateral lines.
The first known mirrors were polished stone.
A crow can use tools to retrieve food.
The average person’s bones store minerals like calcium.
Some birds can remember hundreds of hiding spots.
The first practical batteries were invented in the 1800s.
A seahorse male carries the babies.
The average person’s brain predicts incoming sensory information constantly.
Some frogs can survive drought by burrowing.
The first microscopes revealed hidden worlds.
A cheetah cannot roar like a lion.
The average person’s vocal cords vibrate to produce speech.
Some insects can change color with season.
The first successful x-rays transformed diagnosis.
A starfish uses tube feet to move.
The average person’s fingers have no muscles inside them.
Some fish can alter body color in seconds.
The first mechanical calculators helped mathematics and commerce.
A panda has a pseudo-thumb for gripping bamboo.
The average person’s shoulder blades glide over the rib cage.
Some birds can imitate alarms.
The first practical camera negatives allowed multiple prints.
A walrus tusk is an elongated canine tooth.
The average person’s digestion starts in the mouth.
Some plants have seeds that remain dormant for years.
The first practical spectacles improved reading for many.
A blue whale’s call can travel vast distances underwater.
The average person’s face changes subtly over time.
Some insects can survive extreme dehydration.
The first programmable machines used punched cards.
A spider web can be stronger than steel by weight.
The average person’s collarbone commonly breaks in falls.
Some birds use mud as nest glue.
The first practical radios shrank over time from large sets.
A sloth descends to the ground roughly once a week to poop.
The average person’s brain has distinct hemispheres with interconnected functions.
Some fish use suction to cling to rocks.
The first public museums opened centuries ago.
A viper can sense heat from prey.
The average person’s muscles work in opposing pairs.
Some plants close flowers at night.
The first telephones transmitted voices electrically.
A dolphin’s skin heals quickly.
The average person’s skin protects against pathogens and water loss.
Some birds perform courtship dances.
The first practical ballpoint pen reduced ink smears.
A giraffe’s heart is very powerful to pump blood upward.
The average person’s eyes blink more when speaking.
Some insects fake being dead to avoid predators.
The first known maps were carved on clay tablets.
A bee communicates through dance.
The average person’s body has involuntary and voluntary muscles.
Some fish can bury themselves in sand.
The first electric trains transformed urban transit.
A cat’s ears have many muscles for directional hearing.
The average person’s blood carries oxygen with hemoglobin.
Some birds use echolocation in dark caves.
The first modern vaccines used weakened or related pathogens.
A raccoon can open some latches with dexterous paws.
The average person’s cartilage cushions joints.
Some insects produce sounds by rubbing body parts.
The first practical CDs stored digital music optically.
A pufferfish skeleton remains after inflation ends.
The average person’s body cools itself through sweat.
Some fish are born male and become female.
The first practical photocopiers changed office work.
A heron can stand still for long periods while hunting.
The average person’s sight dominates other senses in many tasks.
Some birds cache food by the thousands.
The first practical lasers had many unexpected later uses.
A hummingbird remembers good flower locations.
The average person’s body can shiver to generate heat.
Some insects build elaborate traps.
The first practical headphones were for communication, not music.
A squid can change color rapidly.
The average person’s nervous system sends signals electrically and chemically.
Some fish sleep in hidden crevices.
The first film projectors created the illusion of motion.
A frog’s eyes help it swallow by pushing food down.
The average person’s muscles generate body heat.
Some birds use cigarette butts in nests to reduce parasites.
The first known writing systems emerged in ancient Mesopotamia.
A shark’s skin feels like sandpaper.
The average person’s heart has four chambers.
Some insects can walk on water.
The first practical nuclear reactors unlocked atomic energy.
A butterfly’s wings are covered in tiny scales.
The average person’s gut and brain communicate constantly.
Some fish can leap onto land to escape predators.
The first practical tape recorders stored sound magnetically.
A wolf’s howl can travel miles.
The average person’s pupils react to emotion as well as light.
Some birds can remember human kindness or threats.
The first industrial robots repeated precise motions.
A penguin can slide on its belly to save energy.
The average person’s body uses glucose as a key fuel.
Some fish make popping sounds.
The first successful powered gliders informed airplane design.
A squirrel’s teeth continuously grow.
The average person’s neurons communicate across synapses.
Some birds can use tools to hook insects.
The first practical microwaves changed home cooking.
A bat uses echolocation to hunt in darkness.
The average person’s liver performs hundreds of functions.
Some insects can survive being stepped on due to body design.
The first modern assembly lines accelerated manufacturing.
A jellyfish can pulse rhythmically to move.
The average person’s body can acclimate to exercise with training.
Some fish guard eggs aggressively.
The first practical satellites enabled global broadcasting.
A crab can regrow a lost claw.
The average person’s bones are living tissue.
Some birds ride air currents across oceans.
The first digital watches seemed futuristic when introduced.
A moth may navigate by moonlight.
The average person’s mind wanders frequently.
Some insects can smell from long distances.
The first solar cells converted light into electricity.
A swan forms strong pair bonds in many cases.
The average person’s sweat is mostly water and salt.
Some fish form cleaning partnerships.
The first practical scanners digitized images and text.
A rabbit thumps its hind legs as a warning.
The average person’s lungs expand and contract thanks to the diaphragm.
Some birds preen with oil from a gland near the tail.
The first practical compasses transformed navigation.
A turtle can live for more than a century in some species.
The average person’s hands are usually not exactly the same size.
Some insects glow to attract mates.
The first practical vaccines often faced skepticism.
A lion’s roar can be heard from miles away.
The average person’s body loses heat through the head less than myths suggest.
Some fish can breathe through skin in low-oxygen conditions.
The first practical submarines changed naval warfare.
A bee can carry pollen loads larger than you might expect.
The average person’s nose warms and filters incoming air.
Some birds have specialized feathers for silent flight.
The first practical GPS depended on satellite timing.
A shark can detect tiny electrical signals from prey.
The average person’s shoulder joint sacrifices stability for mobility.
Some insects use mimicry to look dangerous.
The first practical steamships changed trade routes.
A koala has a specialized digestive system for eucalyptus leaves.
The average person’s blood pressure varies through the day.
Some fish use teamwork while hunting.
The first practical search engines organized the early web.
A hummingbird can remember which flowers it visited.
The average person’s joints are lubricated by synovial fluid.
Some insects build protective cases from debris.
The first practical fiber optics improved communication speed.
A cuttlefish has W-shaped pupils.
The average person’s kidneys help balance body fluids.
Some fish use body patterns to communicate.
The first successful spacewalk happened in the 1960s.
A deer can rotate its ears independently.
The average person’s body breaks down and rebuilds protein constantly.
Some insects drum signals through surfaces.
The first practical drones were military before consumer adoption.
A sea turtle can return to the beach where it hatched.
The average person’s body uses sleep for repair and memory processing.
Some fish have transparent bodies.
The first practical smartphones combined computing and telephony.
A bee has five eyes.
The average person’s breathing rate changes during sleep.
Some insects mimic twigs so well they vanish in plain sight.
The first practical electric grids lit entire neighborhoods.
A camel can drink a large amount of water quickly.
The average person’s skin tone changes with blood flow and sunlight.
Some fish create mucus cocoons at night.
The first practical rockets enabled space exploration.
A crocodile’s bite force is among the strongest measured.
The average person’s hands can reveal dehydration and circulation changes.
Some insects use warning colors to deter predators.
The first practical washing machines changed household labor.
A dolphin calf learns from its mother for years.
The average person’s body stores energy in fat and glycogen.
Some fish lay eggs on carefully cleaned surfaces.
The first practical airships used lighter-than-air gas.
A hedgehog has thousands of spines.
The average person’s balance worsens temporarily when exhausted.
Some insects can survive without food for long periods.
The first practical refrigeration transformed medicine and transport.
A spider can recycle its web by eating it.
The average person’s eyes adapt gradually to darkness.
Some fish can detect pressure changes before storms.
The first practical digital music formats changed listening habits.
A hummingbird’s metabolism is extremely high.
The average person’s muscles become stronger by adapting to stress.
Some insects can hear with their knees.
The first practical cloud computing scaled computing resources remotely.
A wolf pack coordinates while hunting.
The average person’s stomach churns food mechanically and chemically.
Some fish can survive in hot springs.
The first practical internet browsers made the web mainstream.
A shark replaces teeth continuously.
The average person’s body contains sodium, potassium, and other electrolytes.
Some insects camouflage as bark.
The first practical vaccines required cold chains for distribution.
A cat’s tail helps with balance.
The average person’s brain filters out constant background sensations.
Some fish form schools with coordinated movements.
The first practical video streaming changed media habits.
A whale must surface to breathe air.
The average person’s body increases heart rate during stress or exercise.
Some insects can generate sound from wings.
The first practical rechargeable batteries enabled portable electronics.
A penguin parent incubates eggs with body warmth.
The average person’s chest expands in multiple directions when breathing.
Some fish can tolerate salty and fresh water.
The first practical digital maps changed navigation.
A raven can remember problem-solving steps.
The average person’s eyes are fastest at detecting motion.
Some insects produce silk.
The first practical home computers inspired many programmers.
A jellyfish drift depends on currents and pulsation.
The average person’s body maintains pH within a narrow range.
Some fish build bubble nests.
The first practical online shopping changed retail behavior.
A bee colony regulates hive temperature collectively.
The average person’s immune cells patrol constantly for threats.
Some insects carry eggs on their backs.
The first practical touchscreens became common decades after invention.
A lizard can bask to regulate body temperature.
The average person’s tendons transfer muscle force to bones.
Some fish can survive freezing conditions with special proteins.
The first practical hybrid cars combined fuel and electric power.
A dolphin surfaces consciously to breathe.
The average person’s pupils can enlarge from interest or surprise.
Some insects tunnel into wood.
The first practical social networks changed communication styles.
A penguin huddles with others to conserve heat.
The average person’s bones remodel in response to stress.
Some fish have electric organs.
The first practical e-readers changed book consumption.
A crab walks sideways due to leg joint structure.
The average person’s skin contains receptors for touch, pain, and temperature.
Some insects communicate via pheromones.
The first practical tablets bridged phones and laptops.
A bat can eat many insects in one night.
The average person’s hearing helps with balance indirectly via the inner ear.
Some fish clean parasites off larger fish.
The first practical voice assistants brought speech interfaces mainstream.
A horse’s mane helps protect the neck from insects.
The average person’s body produces melatonin in darkness.
Some insects can pause development until conditions improve.
The first practical electric buses appeared long ago and are returning strongly.
A frog can leap many times its body length.
The average person’s circulation delivers nutrients to cells constantly.
Some fish use camouflage while resting.
The first practical wearable devices tracked movement and health.
A bee visits flowers for nectar and pollen.
The average person’s body uses hormones as chemical messengers.
Some insects can survive under ice.
The first practical chat systems predate modern messaging apps.
A camel’s feet spread to help on sand.
The average person’s spine has natural curves for support.